Chapter 42: Inside 86150




Diana followed as Hunter led the way through the corridors of the Pyramid, her steps echoing softly against the smooth, stone surfaces. The air held a faint hum, resonating with an energy that seemed to permeate through the walls. Every surface she could see was covered in runes that had an ambient glow, similar to the giant ones on the outside. The rest trailed behind her, awed into silence.


 Diana's fingertips grazed the wall. feeling the flow of magic beneath her touch. She could not wait to uncover all the secrets buried here, even if she had to pry it out of the bugs here by force. She looked back at the others, her expression contorted by a hint of anger that she couldn't suppress. Hector had run away from a fight.


That in itself was not a bad thing, you could not win every time and she understood that discretion is a better part of valor. However this time Hector left her hanging. Her personally, and that was unacceptable. She would need to think of something to prevent this in the future. The Aspects Hector had were probably constantly fighting inside of him and she needed a Hero more than a Coward.


“Hey, i just wanted to say thank you” She felt a hand on her shoulder and saw Frank when she turned. “Are you okay? You have blood on your clothes”


“Yeah, i’m okay” She smiled sweetly at him, trying to hide her worry. She did experience some feedback when casting her spells, that's why she switched to using her staff. Blocking the Duskshrieker with her Barrier, however, resulted in a different level of pain. The explosion of blood from her nose was certainly concerning; it was the headache and the notification that worried her.




Magical Exhaustion 23h 41m: You used too much mana at once, your maximum MP is decreased by 40.  
	

As usual everything had a price. She shrugged internally, It was a fair trade, Frank would have died and she would have lost a valuable ally. She idly wondered what would have happened if she wasn't holding her staff. She lost some HP with that barrier spell, she would need to plan to overcome that weakness.


Diana watched as Hunter of Prey led our party through the labyrinthine corridors of the pyramid. As we approached a seemingly unremarkable length of wall, Hunter paused, and Diana felt a burst of magic. The door slid open soundlessly, revealing a large internal space. The room inside was a blend of organic and arcane elements. Diana never imagined anything like it.


The walls seem to be moving in a pattern reminiscent of breathing, they look like the centipedes exoskeleton. The uncorrupted centipedes that is. Glass containers with luminescent fluid float in mid-air. Symbols glow softly on surfaces, inscribed everywhere without a pattern she could see. Ceiling and the walls were covered in them. She could hear them whispering in her head, similar to how she heard Hunter of Prey speak.


“Do not touch that” She heard a new voice in her head.


When she turned she saw Frank sheepishly pull his hand back from a cluster of crystalline structures. 
“I don't want them here. You are not welcome here either Hunter of Prey. What are they and why have you brought them here?” The same voice as before asked but this time Diana managed to get a sense of direction. The centipede speaking was on the ceiling, half buried in what seemed to be an exo-exo skeleton? A centipede's armor perhaps? 


Before Hunter could respond Diana took the initiative, she would try to abuse their trade system by offering a lot of information upfront.


“We are humans. Hunter of Prey brought us here so we could help you with the corruption. We have fought it before and survived” She sent using High Speech.


“Interesting. You can use High Speech even though you’re a mammal. Maybe you won't be useless after all. Hunter of Prey leaves us” The bug crawled closer to them, still on the ceiling. Judging from the tone he used to dismiss Hunter it was the leader mentioned earlier.


“It is customary in my society to introduce oneself first. My name is Diana Rogers. How could we help each other?” it was time to trade.















